Afghanistan: There is no god but God; Muhammad is the messenger of God
Albania: You, Albania, give me honor, give me the name Albanian
Algeria: By the people and for the people
American Samoa: Samoa, God is First
Andorra: Strength united is stronger 
Anguilla: Unity, Strength and Endurance
Angola: Strength united is stronger
Antigua and Barbuda: Each endeavouring, all achieving
Argentina: In Union and Liberty 
Armenia: One Nation, One Culture
Aruba: Always progressing 
Australia: No official motto.
Austria: No official motto.
Austria-Hungary: Indivisible and Inseparable.
Asturias: With this sign thou shalt defend the pious, with this sign thou shalt defeat the enemy 
Azerbaijan: The Land of Fire (unofficial).
Azerbaijan Azerbaijan Democratic Republic: The flag once raised will never fall!
Azores: Rather die as free men than be enslaved in peace 

B
Bolivia: Unity is Strength
Brazil: Order and progress

Bahamas: Forward, Upward, Onward Together
Bahrain: No official motto.
Bangladesh: No official motto.
Barbados: Pride and Industry
Bavaria Bavaria: steadfast in loyalty
Belarus: No official motto. 
Byelorussian SSR: Workers of the world, unite!
Belgium: Unity gives Strength
Belize: Under the shade I flourish
Benin: Fellowship, Justice, Labour
Bermuda: Whither the fates carry us
Bhutan: No official motto.
Biafra Republic of Biafra: Peace, Unity, Freedom
Bolivia: Spanish: Unity is Strength
Bosnia and Herzegovina: No official motto.
Botswana: Rain
Brazil: Order and progress
Empire of Brazil: Independence or Death!
British Antarctic Territory: Research and Discovery
British Indian Ocean Territory: Limuria is in our charge
British Virgin Islands: Be watchful
Brittany: Rather death than dishonour
Brunei: Always in service with God's guidance
Bulgaria: Bulgarian: Unity Makes Strength
Burkina Faso: Unity, Progress, Justice
Upper Volta: Unity, Work, Justice
Burundi: Unity, Work, Progress

C

California: I have found it
Cambodia: Nation Religion King
Cameroon: Peace, Work, Fatherland

Canada: From sea to sea
Canary Islands: Ocean
Cape Verde: Unity, Work, Progress
Cayman Islands: He hath founded it upon the seas 
Central African Republic: Unity, Dignity, Work 
Chad: Unity, Work, Progress 
Chile: Through Reason Or By Force
China: No official motto
Chuvashia: Chuvash Republic
Colombia: Freedom and order 
Comoros: Unity, Solidarity, Development
Confederate States: With God as our defender/protector
Democratic Republic of the Congo: Justice, Peace, Work
Republic of the Congo: Unity, Work, Progress
Cook Islands: No official motto.
Costa Rica: No official motto
Côte d'Ivoire: Unity, Discipline, Labor
Croatia: No official motto.
Cuba: Fatherland or death
Cyprus: No official motto.
Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus: No official motto
Czech Republic: Truth prevails
Czechoslovakia (1918–1993): Truth prevails

D

Denmark: God, King and Fatherland God's help, the love of the people, Denmark's strength
Djibouti: Somali and French: Unity, Equality, Peace
Dominica:  After God, the Earth
Dominican Republic: God, Fatherland, Liberty

E

East Timor: Unity, Action, and Progress
Easter Island: May God let the clarity of this vital light be extended to all peoples
Ecuador: God, homeland, and freedom
Egypt: No official motto
El Salvador: God, Union, Liberty
England: God and my right
Equatorial Guinea: Unity, Peace, Justice
Eritrea: State of Eritrea
Estonia: No official motto.
Ethiopia: Ethiopia holds up her hands unto God
Ethiopian Empire: Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah
European Union: United in diversity

F

Falkland Islands: Desire the Right
Faroe Islands: No official motto.
Fiji: Fear God and honour the Queen
Finland: No official motto.
Åland: Islands of Peace
Florentine Republic: Fall, you kingdoms of luxury, for the cities of virtue shall thrive!
France: Liberty, equality, fraternity
French Polynesia: Great Tahiti of the Golden Haze
French Southern and Antarctic Lands: Liberty, equality, fraternity

G

Gabon: Union, Work, Justice
Galicia: We Firmly Believe in this Mistery
Kingdom of Galicia: Here is the mystery of faith that we strongly profess
Gambia: Progress, Peace, Prosperity
Georgia: Strength is in Unity
Germany: No official motto.
West Germany (1949–1990): Unity and Justice and Freedom
East Germany (1949–1990): Workers of all countries, unite!
German Empire (1871–1918): God with us
Nazi Germany (1933–1945): One People, One Realm, One Leader.
Ghana: Freedom and Justice
Gibraltar: Conquered by no enemy
Greece: Freedom or Death
Kingdom of Greece (1832-1924 and 1935–67): The love of the people is my strength
Greenland: No official motto.
Grenada: Ever Conscious of God We Aspire, and Advance as One People
Guam: No official motto.
Guatemala: Grow Free and Fertile
Guernsey: No official motto.
Guinea: Work, Justice, Solidarity
Guinea-Bissau: Unity, Struggle, Progress
Guyana: One People, One Nation, One Destiny

H

Haiti: Liberty, equality, fraternity
Kingdom of Hawaii: The life of the land is perpetuated in righteousness
Honduras: Free, sovereign and independent
Hungary: With the help of God for Homeland and Freedom

I
India: Truth alone triumphs
Iceland: No official motto.
Indonesia: Unity in diversity
Iran: God is the Greatest
Iran Imperial State: Justice He bids me do, as He will judge me
Iraq: God is the Greatest
Ireland: No official motto.
Isle of Man: Whithersoever you throw it, it will stand
Israel: No official motto.
Italy: No official motto.
Italy Kingdom of Italy: We are held together by pact and by religion
Italian Social Republic: For the honor of Italy

J

Jamaica: Out of many, One People
Japan: No official motto.
Ancient Japan: spread the spirit of nurturing rightness
Empire of Japan: Open nation and do enterprising
Jersey: No official motto.
Jordan: God, Homeland, King

K
Kiribati: Health, Peace and Prosperity

Kazakhstan: No official motto.
Kenya: All pull together
Kiribati: Health, Peace and Prosperity
North Korea: No official motto. 
South Korea: No official motto.
Korean Empire: Let there be light across the land
Kosovo[b]: No official motto.
Kurdistan: No official motto. 
Kuwait: No official motto.
Kyrgyzstan: No official motto.

L

Laos: Peace, independence, democracy, unity and prosperity
Latvia: For Fatherland and Freedom
Lebanon: We are all for the Country, the Sublime and the Flag
Lesotho: Peace, Rain, Prosperity
Liberia: The love of liberty brought us here
Liechtenstein: For God, Prince and Fatherland
Lithuania: Freedom, Unity, Prosperity
Lower Saxony Lower Saxony: always a good idea
Luxembourg: We wish to remain what we are

M

Madagascar: Love, Ancestral-land, Progress
Madeira: Of the Islands, the Most Beautiful and Free
Malawi: Unity and Freedom
Malaysia: unity is strength
Maldives: State of the Mahal Dibiyat
Mali: One people, one goal, one faith
Malta: Strength and consistency
Marshall Islands: Accomplishment (Achievement) through Joint Effort
Mauritania: Honor, Fraternity, Justice
Mauritius: Star and key of the Indian Ocean
Mexico: The Homeland is First
First Mexican Empire: Independence, Union, Religion
Second Mexican Empire: Equity in Justice
Federated States of Micronesia: Peace, Unity, Liberty
Moldova: Our Language is a Treasure
Monaco: With God's help
Mongolia: No official motto.
Montenegro: No official motto. 
Montserrat: A people of excellence, moulded by nature, nurtured by God
Morocco: God, the Country, the King
Mozambique: Republic of Mozambique
Myanmar: Happiness through harmony

N

Namibia: Unity, liberty, justice
Nauru: God's will first
Nepal: Mother and motherland are greater than heaven
Netherlands: I will maintain
Netherlands Antilles: United in Freedom
New Caledonia: Land of speech, land of sharing
Newfoundland: Seek ye first the kingdom of God
New Zealand: No official motto.
Nicaragua: In God We Trust
Niger: Fraternity, Work, Progress
Nigeria: Unity and Faith, Peace and Progress
Niue: No official motto.
North Borneo: I undertake and I achieve
North Ossetia: Workers of the world, unite!
Northern Mariana Islands: No official motto.
Norway: No official national motto.
Nuevo León: Always Ascending

P
Pakistan: Faith, Unity, Discipline
Panama: For the benefit of the world

Pakistan: Faith, unity, discipline
Palau: Rainbow's End
Palestine: No official motto.
Panama: For the benefit of the world
Papua New Guinea: Unity in Diversity
Paraguay: Peace and justice
Peru: Steady and happy for the union
Philippines: For God, for the people, for nature and for the country
Philippines Fourth Philippine Republic: One Country, One Spirit
Poland: No official motto.
Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth: ----Pro fide, lege, et rege (Latin: "For Faith, Law, and King"); Si Deus nobiscum quis contra nos (Latin: If God is with us, then who is against us).
Portugal: No official motto
Kingdom of Portugal: By this sign you shall conquer
Prussia: To each his own
Puerto Rico: John is his name

R

Republic of Ragusa: Freedom is not sold for all the gold in the world
Roman Empire and previously Roman Republic: The Senate and people of Rome
Romania: No official motto.
Russian Federation: No official motto.
Russian Empire: ------ Съ нами Богъ! (S nami Bog!) (Russian: God is with us!) and За Вѣру, Царя и Отечество! (Za Veru, Tsarya i Otechestvo!) (Russian: For Faith, For Tsar, For Fatherland)
Russia Russian State: United and Indivisible Russia!
Rwanda: Unity, Work, Patriotism

S

Saint Helena: Loyal and unshakeable
Saint Kitts and Nevis: Country Above Self
Saint Lucia: The land, the people, the light
Saint Pierre and Miquelon: From the Sea, Work
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: Peace and justice
Sakha Republic: No official motto.
Samoa: God be the Foundation of Samoa
San Marino: Liberty
São Tomé and Príncipe: Unity, Discipline, Work
Kingdom of Sarawak: While I breathe, I hope
Saudi Arabia: There is no God other than God and Muhammad is the Messenger of God
Scotland: No one provokes me with impunity
Senegal: One people, one goal, one faith
Serbia: Only unity saves the Serbs
Seychelles: The end crowns the work
Sierra Leone: Unity, freedom, justice
Singapore: Onward Singapore
Sint Maarten: Always progressing
Slovakia Slovak Republic: No official motto.
Slovenia: No official motto.
Solomon Islands: To lead is to serve
Somalia: No official motto.
Somaliland: There is no God other than God and Muhammad is the Messenger of God
South Africa: Diverse people unite or Unity in Diversity
Union of South Africa: From Unity, Strength
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands: Let the lion protect his own land 

South Sudan: Justice, Liberty, Prosperity
Soviet Union: Proletarians of all nations, unite!
Spain: Further beyond
Sri Lanka: No official motto.
Sudan: Victory is Ours
Suriname: Justice, piety, loyalty
Swaziland: We are the fortress
Sweden: No official national motto.
Switzerland: One for all, all for one
Syria: Unity, Freedom, Socialism

T

Taiwan: No official motto.
Tajikistan: No official motto.
Tanzania: Freedom and Unity
Tatarstan: We can!
Texas: Friendship
Thailand:No official motto.
Thailand Siam (1873-1910) : Unity amongst those uniting brings about success and prosperity.
Togo: Work, liberty, homeland
Tokelau: Tokelau For The Almighty
Tonga: God and Tonga are my Inheritance
Trinidad and Tobago: Together we aspire, together we achieve
Tristan da Cunha: Our faith is our strength
Tunisia: Freedom, Dignity, Order and Justice
Turkey: No official motto.
Turkmenistan: No official motto.
Turks and Caicos Islands: No official motto.
Tuvalu: Tuvalu for the Almighty

U

Uganda: For God and My Country
Ukraine: Glory to Ukraine
United Arab Emirates: God, Nation, President
United Kingdom: No official motto.
Scotland: No-one cuts me with impunity
Wales: Wales Forever, alternatively Long live Wales
United States: In God We Trust 
Uruguay: Liberty or Death
U.S. Virgin Islands: United In Pride And Hope
Uzbekistan: The Strength is in The Justice

V

Vanuatu: In God we stand
Vatican City: No official motto. Pope Francis' personal motto: Miserando Atque Eligendo (Latin: By Giving mercy and by choosing)[a]
Venezuela: God and Federation
Venice: Long Live Saint Mark!
Vietnam: Independence, Freedom and Happiness
North Vietnam: Independence, Freedom, Happiness
South Vietnam: 1954-67: Fatherland, Honor, Responsibility
W

Wallachia: Wallachia united for God and freedom!
Wales: Wales Forever
West Indies Federation: To dwell together in unity
Kingdom of Württemberg former Kingdom of Württemberg: Fearless and faithful

Y

Yemen: God, Homeland, Revolution, Unity
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Serbo-Croatia: Brotherhood and unity

Z

Zaire: Peace — Justice — Work
Zambia: One Zambia, One Nation
Zanzibar: Zanzibar for the world
Zimbabwe: Unity, Freedom, Work
Rhodesia: May she be worthy of the name
